+++
linkTitle = 'March 10 2026'
title = 'March 10th, 2026'
shortTitle = 'March 10 2026'
date = 2026-03-10T15:56:27-06:00
genres = ['other']
draft = false
audioFile = ""
audioTitle = ""
+++

If my words come off as imprecise or awkward, I apologize in advance. This post comes at the end of a particular difficult mental health episode in my life, one from which I'm still recovering. I've found words and sentences to be difficult lately, and I decided to just start writing to get back into the habit.

There comes a point where you decide that meaning in life is important, and it hits you with the force of a truckload of bricks. This hit me last fall, and I won't go into the details here. The effect was that I was knocked off-axis completely, and am no longer on the same wavelength of understanding that I was last fall.

I'm trying to find a new center, a new wavelength, and a new path to traverse. I have lost a lot of interest in programming, software, and technology that I had not too long ago, and it makes me sad. I felt the first hint of passion for software today, for the first time in many days - and it came from re-reading one of my old essays. It's called ["Do the Illegible"](https://ashwinsundar.com/posts/legibility-and-programming) - even though I wrote it in July, I had forgotten about it completely until something nudged me to re-trace my footsteps and re-read some of my old writings. It feels prescient for the mood I am in now, a mood dominated by disinterest in the technology world that has come to be dominated by one word, or rather, an acronym - AI.

AI.

I can't escape it. It is a black hole sucking the life out of any conversation around technology today. It's worse than anything I've experienced in my short career in software so far. NFTs, cryptocurrency, web 3.0 - I don't remember any of these things dominating the discussion like AI does now. 

More specifically, it's the "vibecoding" mentality that has poisoned the well lately. Every since Andrej Karpathy published the most damaging tweet to our industry in recent memory, it's all anyone can talk about. Why talk about the merits around technology, the pros and cons, the history, the passions of the developers - when you can just vibecode your way out of any problem ever? It's like we discovered the Elixir of Life - what is the point of Life if we are all immortal?

I don't know how to end this. The purpose of this exercise was just to write more. I'm also trying to code more, as an antidote to the vibecoding phenomenon that threatens to dissolve all the knowledge accumulated in software and programming over the past 75 years.

I just want to have new thoughts and new discoveries, and I worry that relying on artificial intelligence to do everything for us will mean that there is no intelligence left for humans anymore. I still want to go to the gym and work out, because it's good for me, even if it doesn't benefit anyone else. I don't want to be the only one left in the gym either. I want to have friends and colleagues who still want to talk about what they know, what they've read, and generate brand new interesting ideas - without the "let's ask [Claude/ChatGPT/Gemini/HorseToothAI]" comment that pretty much destroys the most interesting part of the conversation - the meeting of minds, the debates, the mental exercises and battles and challenges. 

---

When I was in college, my friends and I used to have the most inane debates. About things like, "how much do you think Dwight Howard weighs"? We would consider how much he must exercise in a day, what his caloric intake is, even what his...bowel movements must be like, to then come to a final guess. Google existed, but I don't think we ever even looked up the answer. The debate was the most memorable aspect of that conversation, and the right answer was more of an afterthought. If you presented a convincing argument, you win.

It was an exercise, in the literal sense. You can go to the gym and lift weights with a forklift, and you can use Claude to solve all your mental problems too. I still want to go lift the weights myself.

